

Using Machine Learning To Predict Diagnosis of a Breast Cancer

1. Identify the problem

Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women, accounting for nearly 1 in 3 cancers diagnosed among women in the United States, and it is the second leading cause of cancer death among women. Breast Cancer occurs as a results of abnormal growth of cells in the breast tissue, commonly referred to as a Tumor. A tumor does not mean cancer - tumors can be benign (not cancerous), pre-malignant (pre-cancerous), or malignant (cancerous). Tests such as MRI, mammogram, ultrasound and biopsy are commonly used to diagnose breast cancer performed.

1.1 Expected outcome

Given breast cancer results from breast fine needle aspiration (FNA) test (is a quick and simple procedure to perform, which removes some fluid or cells from a breast lesion or cyst (a lump, sore or swelling) with a fine needle similar to a blood sample needle). Since this build a model that can classify a breast cancer tumor using two training classification:

1= Malignant (Cancerous) - Present
0= Benign (Not Cancerous) -Absent

1.2 Objective

Since the labels in the data are discrete, the predication falls into two categories, (i.e. Malignant or benign). In machine learning this is a classification problem.

Thus, the goal is to classify whether the breast cancer is benign or malignant and predict the recurrence and non-recurrence of malignant cases after a certain period. To achieve this we have used machine learning classification methods to fit a function that can predict the discrete class of new input.

1.3 Identify data sources

The Breast Cancer datasets is available machine learning repository maintained by the University of California, Irvine. The dataset contains 569 samples of malignant and benign tumor cells.

The first two columns in the dataset store the unique ID numbers of the samples and the corresponding diagnosis (M=malignant, B=benign), respectively.
The columns 3-32 contain 30 real-value features that have been computed from digitized images of the cell nuclei, which can be used to build a model to predict whether a tumor is benign or malignant.




